.TH MKVINFO "1" "April 2004" "mkvinfo v0.8.8" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mkvinfo \- Print information about tracks in Matroska files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkvinfo
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIinname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This program lists all tracks contained in a Matroska file including
information about the codecs used.
.TP
inname
Use '\fIinname\fR' as the source.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-gui\fR
Start the GUI. This option is only available if mkvinfo was compiled with
GUI support.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose and show all Matroska elements. See the section
\'\fBVERBOSITY LEVELS\fR' for details.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-checksums\fR
Calculates and display the Adler32 checksum for each frame. Useful for
debugging only.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-summary\fR
Only show a terse summary of what \fBmkvinfo\fR finds and not each element.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show usage information.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Show version information.
.SH VERBOSITY LEVELS
.LP
The \fB-v\fR option can be used to increase \fBmkvinfo\fR's verbosity level
and print more information about the current file.
.TP
level 0
will print only the track headers it finds and their types. \fBmkvinfo\fR
will exit as soon as the headers are parsed completely (more technical:
as soon as the first cluster is encountered). In this level the seek head
entries and the cues will not be displayed - even if they're located in
front of the track information.
.TP
level 1
will also print all Matroska elements encountered for the complete file but
the seek head entries and the cue entries.
.TP
level 2
will also print the seek head entries, the cue entries and the file position
at which each Matroska element can be found at.
.TP
level 3
will print some information that is not directly connected to a Matroska
element. All other elements only print stuff about the elements that were
just found. Level 3 adds meta information to ease debugging (read: it's
intended for developers only). All lines written by level 3 are enclosed
in square brackets to make filtering them out easy.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
.I mkvinfo
was written by Moritz Bunkus <moritz@bunkus.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mkvmerge (1),
.BR mkvextract (1),
.BR mmg (1)
.SH WWW
The newest version can always be found at
.UR http://www.bunkus.org/videotools/mkvtoolnix/
<http://www.bunkus.org/videotools/mkvtoolnix/>
.UE
